When while loops finish

While it is convention to think of the termination test for the shell
while loop to be at the beginning, the shell grammar is flexible enough
to effectively place the test anywhere.  The usual description of the
while syntax is:

while *command* do *command-list* done

In fact the *command* that is used for the test cna be a *command-list*,
and can be just as complex as the body of the while loop is.  So if you
miss the "do ... while" construct from other languages, such as C, you
can emulate one with:

CODE
while
  *command-list*
*command* ; do : ; done
/CODE

This works because the exit status of a list of commands is the exit
status of the last simple command, so it is the command that immediately
precedes the 'do' that determines whether the 'while' loop continues or
not.  Because we're emulating a "do ... while" loop there is no body
between 'do' and 'done', but we still have to appease the shell grammar
with a surprisingly awkward empty command.

You may have already guessed that there's no particularly reason to
place the test at the end of the loop.  If you want the test to be
somewhere in the middle then that's possible; just place some commands
before the test, and some after the test after a do.  The second list,
between 'do' and 'done' can't be empty, but a slight abuse of the ':'
command suggests this layout:

CODE
while
  *commands-1*
*test-command* ; do :
  *commands-2*
done
/CODE

Used in this way, shell's while loop is reminiscent of Forth's
'BEGIN ... WHILE ... REPEAT' loop, where the test can be placed anywhere
in the looping body.

Warning: This is definitely esoterica, and if you use this knowledge in
the shell programs you write, then you're likely to make them harder for
your companion programmers to understand.

